
ccast SDR format
-----------------

H. Motteler, 1 Mar 2015

The ccast SDR files are saved in HDF 5 format with the Matlab
"-v7.3" option, with HDF groups implementing the Matlab structs.
Matlab users can access these with a simple "load" and HDF users
with standard tools and libs.  See the CrIS User's Guide [1] for
background and details on the geo fields.


Variable Summary
-----------------

  rLW        nchan x 9 x 30 x nscan       LW radiance data
  rMW        nchan x 9 x 30 x nscan       MW radiance data
  rSW        nchan x 9 x 30 x nscan       SW radiance data

  cLW        nchan x 9 x 30 x nscan       LW complex residual
  cMW        nchan x 9 x 30 x nscan       MW complex residual
  cSW        nchan x 9 x 30 x nscan       SW complex residual

  vLW              nchan x 1              LW frequency grid
  vMW              nchan x 1              MW frequency grid
  vSW              nchan x 1              SW frequency grid

  nLW            nchan x 9 x 2            LW NEdN estimate
  nMW            nchan x 9 x 2            MW NEdN estimate
  nSW            nchan x 9 x 2            SW NEdN estimate

  geo              structure              GCRSO geo values
  L1a_err          30 x nscan             L1a error flag
  L1b_err        9 x 30 x nscan           L1b error flag
  L1b_stat         structure              L1b status details

  userLW           structure              LW user params
  userMW           structure              MW user params
  userSW           structure              SW user params

  instLW           structure              LW sensor params
  instMW           structure              MW sensor params
  instSW           structure              SW sensor params

  sci              struct array           8-sec sci data
  eng              structure              4-min eng data
  rid              string                 date/time string

  scTime          34*nscan x 1            granule frame time


Field definitions
------------------

rLW, rMW, rSW - nchan x 9 x 30 x nscan arrays of calibrated
radiances.  The second dimension is FOV index and the third FOR
index.  nchan is the CrIS user grid plus two guard channels at the
edge of each band.  nscan is a configurable parameter, set to 45 
for recent ccast data.

cLW, cMW, cSW - nchan x 9 x 30 x nscan arrays of complex residuals.

nLW, nMW, nSW - nchan x 9 x 2 NEdN estimates.  The last dimension is
sweep direction.  These are computed once per granule, for each FOV.

geo - geolocation data.  See the geo info below, and reference [1]
for more detail.

L1a_err - 30 x nscan array of L1a processing flags, 1 = bad, 0 = OK.
This is currently simply copied from scMatch, from the L1a processing

L1b_err - 9 x 30 x nscan array of L1b/SDR processing flags, 1 = bad,
0 = OK.

L1b_stat - structure with a detailed breakout of L1b/SDR QC info.

userLW, userMW, userSW - the user grid parameters, for each band.
The sensor grid is translated to these specs.  The fields are

    v1   - band start
    v2   - band end
    dv   - user dv
    opd  - user opd, 1/(2*dv)

instLW, instMW, instSW - sensor grid parameters.  This is what the
instrument is really using.  The following three values, along with
user.v1 and user.v2, determine the remaining parameters

    wlaser  - metrology laser half-wavelength
    npts    - number of decimated points
    df      - decimation factor

The derived parameters include
  
    dv      - true instrument dv
    opd     - true optical path difference
    freq    - instrument frequency grid

sci - an array of structs with selected values from the 8-second
(aka science) packets.  Mainly used for ICT modeling.

eng - the most recent 4-minute (aka engineering) packet.  This
includes instrument parameters and status--in total, more than 3000
values.

scTime - 34*nscan x 1 array of granule frame times.  Users should
use the 30 x nscan array geo.FORTime for most applications.

rid - a date and time string of the form dYYYYMMDD_tHHMMSSS, the
start time of the L1a and SDR granules


Geo fields
-----------

The ccast geo field names and data types are from the NOAA GCRSO
format described in [1].  Times are IET, microseconds since 1958.

               FORTime: [30 x nscan double]
                Height: [9 x 30 x nscan single]
              Latitude: [9 x 30 x nscan single]
             Longitude: [9 x 30 x nscan single]
               MidTime: [nscan x 1 double]
              PadByte1: [nscan x 1 single]
        QF1_CRISSDRGEO: [nscan x 1 single]
            SCAttitude: [3 x nscan single]
            SCPosition: [3 x nscan single]
            SCVelocity: [3 x nscan single]
 SatelliteAzimuthAngle: [9 x 30 x nscan single]
        SatelliteRange: [9 x 30 x nscan single]
  SatelliteZenithAngle: [9 x 30 x nscan single]
     SolarAzimuthAngle: [9 x 30 x nscan single]
      SolarZenithAngle: [9 x 30 x nscan single]
             StartTime: [nscan x 1 double]
         Asc_Desc_Flag: [nscan x 1 single] (GCRSO attribute)
          Orbit_Number: [nscan x 1 single] (GCRSO attribute)


Note on radiance data
----------------------

Radiance data includes two "guard channels" at the start and end of
each CrIS band that extend the user grid.  These are included for
compatibility with the NOAA SDR format, fast models, and convolution
codes, but are not really valid data because they may be outside the
passbands used for CrIS processing.


References
-----------

[1] NOAA Technical Report NESDIS 143, Cross Track Infrared Sounder
(CrIS) Sensor Data Record (SDR) Userâ€™s Guide, Version 1.0, Yong Han
et al., Washington DC., Dec 2013.

